All right.  I'll get started. I
All right. I'll get started. I
welcome everyone to today's protocol
meeting where we'll be discussing some
recent changes to two core advancement
proposals  cap 63 and 67. So first
proposals cap 63 and 67. So first
I'll start with  some se several cap
I'll start with some se several cap
67 updates.  the first one is that we
67 updates. the first one is that we
emit the  set authorized event to give
emit the set authorized event to give
the unified events parody with the
stellar asset contract.  there's also
stellar asset contract. there's also
a change specified that the inflation
operation will  emit a mint event for
operation will emit a mint event for
each
payout.  there's also  a change to
payout. there's also a change to
prohibit mox source accounts and memos
for sorbon transactions and the  this
for sorbon transactions and the this
is because like so the the mox source
we're prohibiting the mox source to
avoid any confusion confusion on events
and that along with the memos are not
signed in the o payload. So we're just
prohibiting them altogether.  there's
prohibiting them altogether. there's
also a change to have all diagnostics
live in the single transaction level
vector and remove the operation specific
diagnostics vector that cap 67
originally
implemented.  and we also added the
implemented. and we also added the
emu account support that we discussed
at the last protocol meeting and all
these changes can be in the cap 67 link
can be seen in the cap 67 link that I
shared below.  and the last change is
shared below. and the last change is
that it's not a change, it's more of a
detail that we will discuss in this
meeting which is that there's no
specific event for fee refunds.  and
specific event for fee refunds. and
this it's conflated to the fee event.
And
this is related to the cap 63 change
that I I'll discuss in a moment. But
before I move on, does anyone have any
questions? All right. Then  then I'll
questions? All right. Then then I'll
move on to the  the cap 63 change. One
move on to the the cap 63 change. One
sec. Can can everyone hear
me? Okay. Yeah. Then  yeah, I'll move
me? Okay. Yeah. Then yeah, I'll move
on to the cap 63 change.  which is the
on to the cap 63 change. which is the
a change to apply the fee refunds after
all sorbond transactions have been
applied instead of after each
transaction like it is today.  so we
transaction like it is today. so we
this this was done because the fee
source is not part of the footprint and
this is an issue because it's possible
for that same account to be used in a
sorbon transaction. So if you apply
transactions in parallel  you would
transactions in parallel you would
need to make sure that the fee source
doesn't conflict the the the refund
doesn't conflict with a different
transaction that modifies the ex the
native excellent balance of an account.
so we had two options here. You would
either need to make the fee source an
implicit number of the readwrite
footprint or we just changed  how
footprint or we just changed how
refunds are are applied and apply them
after all store run transactions have
been applied and we decided that
applying the refunds later made more
sense. That's what cap 67 cap 63 went
with. And the relevant cap 67 topic
to discuss here is that the refund is
conflated into the fee event. So this is
fine if the goal is to just track
balances at the end of every ledger. But
if a user wants to  infer anything
if a user wants to infer anything
related to balances in a ledger or in a
transaction then this can be an issue.
because imagine that you have a
contract as a example Lee mentioned. you
have a contract
where  it  the contract does an
where it the contract does an
action based off an account falling
below a certain balance
because the fee was charged to that
account.  but if we emit the the fee
account. but if we emit the the fee
as the fee plus refund when you look at
the events later on like for example if
you're doing an audit you will never see
that the account dropped below that
balance that the account triggered on
that the contract triggered on.  so
that the contract triggered on. so
this is an edge case and I'm not sure if
this like something we can discuss is if
this if this use case actually matters.
but the alternative would be to maybe
emit a a separate refund event. But we
actually open up another can of worms
here which is that if you're the fees
are applied all fees are applied before
are charged before the the operations
are applied. So you would need to make
convey the information about the
ordering in which the balances change in
the events and currently the events are
just  a transaction level vector and
just a transaction level vector and
an operation level vector but we would
need to we might need to make some
changes where the structure that's in TX
meta which is you have the you have
everything that happens pre-apply
everything that happens during
transaction application and everything
that happens post transaction
application. we need to  convey that
application. we need to convey that
same information in the events and we
should and if we do need this
granularity that might be the path to
take.  so so  yeah if does anyone
take. so so yeah if does anyone
have any questions about this or or have
any input?
what I wanted to tell is that like
we don't have many people today.  and
we don't have many people today. and
we also don't have Lee and we don't have
Nico and others. So I mean you
definitely could listen to what folks
who are present think
but yeah sounds like I can afford just
yeah exactly  yeah I'm inclined myself
yeah exactly yeah I'm inclined myself
to just  not do anything and just
to just not do anything and just
clarify in the cap that events should
not be used for modeling the exact
balances during the ledger application
time because fees are in general charged
at different points in time.
, okay. Here's
Nicholas.
, yeah, it seems to me like that's
the thing to do here and if someone has
objections, you can discuss them async.
yeah because otherwise we would
introduce a lot of structural complexity
in meta
for meta in events and we wanted
events to be rather simple to consume
and hopefully the
consumers of events not worry about
just reor operation but yeah that's my
take on this
Yeah.
Yeah. I agree. I I the use cases we've
discussed with rel in relation to cap 67
tend to be for just tracking balances
which seems like you know
tracking you updating your balance at
the end of every ledger is what what
this was designed for. And if you if you
want to use this for if you when you do
anything related to like audits or
anything more granular, I feel like TX
meta should be enough.  and making
meta should be enough. and making
this system more complicated to handle
those use cases doesn't seem to to be
the right right move here. So I I I
agree with you. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And
I guess the bottom line here is that
like even though the effects are when
the ledger has been applied, you still
get the correct value for transaction.
It just applied at different points in
time, but then when you're looking at
transaction events, you'll still get the
correct key charge that corresponds to
what happened in reality. , you just
don't know the exact details when
exactly has been charged. So, ,
hopefully for most
intense purposes, please. So yeah, I I
guess we can write this up and update
the cap and yeah, we can update the cap
and respond in that thread.
Okay. Does anyone else have any have any
input? We have a small group today.
so unless anyone has any  any other
so unless anyone has any any other
questions, we can probably call it call
it early.
All right. Well, it was a quick one
today. Thank you for joining and
yeah, thanks Nemo for your
input. All right. See you.